[Music]
differences between generations X Y & Z
which one are you since you're on the
internet right now and assuming it's not
your first time you've probably already
noticed that this space is pretty much
dominated by a younger crowd you've
likely heard them referred to as
Millennials or is it gens II and how are
they different from generations x and y
what's with all the labels anyway and
how can you make heads or tails of which
one you belong to and what defines your
generation
well according to sociologist Karl
Mannheim it all comes down to generation
a location meaning that all members of a
generation share a similar collective
experience we'll get into what those
might be for your generation but before
we do that take this moment to subscribe
to our Channel and hit that notification
bell so that you'll always be the first
to see all our new videos now where were
we
ah yes people are categorized in two
generations depending on when they were
born for today's video we're gonna focus
on people born in the US as of now there
are five living generations the
traditionalists also known as the Silent
Generation who were born before 1945
then there's the baby boomers born
between 1946 and 1964 anyone born
between 1965 and 1979 are considered
Generation X while Millennials for
Generation Y were born between 1980 and
finally there's Gen Z or Centennial's
who were born from 1996 to the present
these ranges are just approximations of
course you can be born within three
years of the beginning or end of a
generation and still belong to it what's
more important is the collective
experiences people born within these
years share the traditionalist
generation who are now age 73
older has a wide range of collective
experiences some are old enough to
remember one or both of the world wars
the Great Depression and even the
invention of sliced bread as a result of
these experiences most traditionalists
value hard work commitment and
practicality and they don't like to be
wasteful that's not to say other
generations don't share these values
it's just that the scarcity of resources
during these trying times fostered a
culture of doing whatever it took to
survive they also tend to be more
respectful of authority that is the
always respect your elders generation
which you might recognize in your older
relatives traditionalists gave birth to
the baby boomers who were of course part
of the huge birthrate increase following
the Second World War Boomers changed a
lot about American society particularly
advertising and marketing since they
were such a large part of the population
they did a lot of the spending and had a
great impact on the economy once they
entered and left the workforce the
post-war political landscape was pretty
rocky so there's plenty of collective
experiences for this generation to
choose from the Vietnam War and the
controversy surrounding the draft the
Cold War and the Red Scare the civil
rights movement Woodstock and
counterculture the moon-landing and the
list goes on all these experiences made
for a wide range of characteristics and
values this generation started out
liberal when they were involved in all
the political and social movements but
they then grew more conservative as they
aged there's some disagreement as to
when exactly the Boomers and and Gen X
begins a lot of people born from 1961 to
1964 don't identify as boomers and don't
have any emotional connection to the
collective experiences that shape them
this has prompted some researchers to
classify Generation X as those born from
1961 to 1981 Gen X got to experience the
aftermath of all the changes the Boomers
made with both parents now entering the
workforce Gen X kids had less adult
supervision than previous gen
relations which cause them to be more
peer oriented the use of computers also
took off during these years making Gen X
more entrepreneurial than their parents
and grandparents the collective
experiences of Gen X include the crack
epidemic and the emergence of the AIDS
crisis which made them much more cynical
and disaffected as teens and young
adults than boomers or traditionalists
had ever been music also defined a lot
of this generation with the invention of
music videos and the popularization of
hip-hop rap and grunge ah
Millennials they've been the topic of
much debate even over when their
generation starts and ends some
demographers have decided that
Millennials were born as early as 1977
while others extend their cutoff to as
late as 1999 and of course there's the
ever-popular millennial bashing other
generations complain that millenials are
selfish entitled narcissistic addicted
to their phones lazy impatient and pulse
'iv overly sensitive weak willed and the
name-calling goes on and on while it's
true that some will in heels share these
traits the same can be said of literally
anyone else in the world
if there's no need to vilify an entire
generation for wanting and expecting
good things for themselves or for taking
full advantage of the awesome technology
that surrounds them in fact
the sweeping technological advances of
the digital age have made Millennials
much more group oriented than their
predecessors which accounts for their
social progressiveness and tendency
towards left-leaning politics Gen Z
includes everyone born in the 21st
century they can be the children of
either Gen X or millennial parents and
this difference can affect their
relationship with the technology they've
grown up with Gen X parents who were
raised without widespread access to the
Internet are more likely to be
restrictive with their kids devices
millennial parents on the other hand
grew up as the technology we have now
was developing and gaining popularity
so they tend to be more lenient when it
comes to their children using gadgets
such digital savvy lends itself to the
entrepreneurial spirit mentioned earlier
with Gen X so Gen Z also tends to value
collaboration more in both school and
work Centennial's were born into an
environment where digital devices were
widespread and readily available so they
have a very different relationship with
it than previous generations in fact 40%
of Centennial surveyed said that a
reliable Wi-Fi connection is more
important to them than reliable
bathrooms of course it's possible they
might use that Wi-Fi to find a nearby
public restroom but still it's the
principle of the matter Millennials and
Centennial's share the most similarities
and collective experiences out of all
the living generations so there's a lot
of debate about the exact range for each
of them no matter where exactly these
generations start they've mostly
experienced the same things
a majority of Millennials can remember
where they were when the September 11th
terrorist attacks happened
that can tell you exactly when they got
their first cell phone and when they
first made a myspace account they can
recognize the theme songs - family ties
Rugrats and other popular shows of the
80s and 90s
someone born in 1996 might not remember
or have an emotional connection to the
events of 2001 which is why some
researchers classified them as
Centennial's rather than millenials the
technological immersion that marks the
turn of the century and defines the
younger generations has definitely
affected how they communicate everything
online happens pretty much
instantaneously so Millennials and
Centennial's tend to expect other things
to happen quickly - especially responses
to texts and emails it's also led to a
specific sort of humor in Gen Y & Z that
completely baffles older generations a
lot of this humor references other jokes
so if you haven't seen a specific vine
or spongebob episode then it just sounds
like nonsense
you can even count mean culture as a
collective experience the two
generations share
but when it comes down to it
generational lines are just as arbitrary
as borders on a map they don't really
matter
they're just stuff we made up to help
define ourselves better but really you
can define yourself and your generation
however you want so what defines your
generation when do you think each of the
generations start and stop what are some
collective experiences people share in
the place you're from tell us in the
comments below give this video a like if
you found it useful share it with your
friends and family and always remember
to stay on the bright side of life